Threat Modelling
Braiterman et al 2020: Threat modeling manifesto
o	Threat modelling is understanding a system and analysing it to detect security concerns
	Helps pinpoint vulnerabilities etc.
	Four questions
•	What are we working on?
•	What can go wrong?
•	What are we going to do about it?
•	Did we do a good enough job?
o	Best way to Threat Model is by early and frequent analysis of system’

Threat Modelling Manifesto https://www.threatmodelingmanifesto.org/

-	Shostack 2022: Welcome to the Worlds Shortest Threat Modeling Course
o	“We threat model to anticipate problems when it is inexpensive to deal with them”
o	Jotting ideas by sketching to demonstrate our thoughts to others with hopes of tackling the question “What are we working on?”
o	Data flow diagrams are useful as threats follow data
o	Five Elements of data flow diagram:
	External entities
	Processes
	Data flows
	Data storage
	Trust boundary
o	STRIDE problems that occur in systems
Shostack 2022: Welcome to the Worlds Shortest Threat Modeling Course
-	OWASP CheatSheets Series Team 2021
o	What are we working on?
	Understanding the system, you are building
•	What is its use and what it is comprised of
•	Clear objective 
o	What can go wrong?
	Understanding the vulnerabilities, challenges, and problems of the system
o	What are we going to do about it?
	Implementing risk mitigation
•	Classifying each risk by its impact and frequency
•	Steps to lowering the risks
o	Did we do a good enough job?
	Evaluation of the threat modelling job
•	Comparing results to goals, what could be done better, what was done well etc.
CheatSheets Series Team 2021 





InfoSec Scene
-	DarkNet Diaries EP  44: Zain
o	Episode talks about the rising of ransomware
	Virus that locks victims out of their device and demands payments for access again
o	A good example of how a teenager who used his hacking abilities along with Russian cyber criminals turned a cyber threat into a money-making scheme
	A “police” virus was used, because it shows police logo and a fake accusation to users
	Zain Qaiser spread the virus through advertisements on many websites which caught many victims
	Victims were falsely accused by what they thought was police of certain actions to make them feel guilty
	Victims were forced to pay to regain access
	Money was laundered using a third entity, a company using MoneyPak (money deposit service) and Liberty Reserve (payment processor that got shut down)
	Eventually Zain was caught and sentenced to several years in prison



Security Hygiene
-	Good practices that keep personal data safe, protects devices from threats, and mitigates any other cyber-related risks
o	Strong logins
	Long passwords with characters and symbols
	2-step authentication
	Other authentication methods
o	Data protection
	Safe password storage
	Keeping personal data to oneself
	Logging out when inactive
o	Threat protection
	Understanding and avoiding threats and traps
	Threat protection software (malwarebyet)
-	Threat Modelling
Data Storage Company (MaxiData Oy)
•	A new and small company that stores date in warehouses/offices across Finland for individuals/companies.

(1) What are we working on?
	Our assets
	Physical data storages
	Security supports business
	Yes, as they are handling all forms of data, personal/confidential etc.
	Draw a diagram of the company systems

	Customer is the king
	What do we have to do the serve the customer (to keep getting paid)
	Provide an accessible and easy to use data storage service at low rates to offer a stress-free experience for customers
	How does customer see our systems? Touchpoints?
	First touchpoints are of course from advertisements
	Customers interact when choosing a membership/purchasing plan
	Engage every time they store, remove, access data

(2) What can go wrong?
	STRIDE
	Tampering
	Data is corrupted and therefor unusable 
	Information disclosure
	Non-authorized personnel enter data warehouse
	Denial of Service
	Hackers block access to database, halting the flow of data
	Priorize biggest risks
	Unauthorized access/ data breach
	Internal threats
	Employees may exploit or tamper with data
	Faulty data storage methods
	Are you targetted by specific threat actors? Are there actors that target your geographical or political area or industry?
	Targeted for holding mass data, which could be obtained my hackers and sold, or corrupted to cause chaos
	Business continuity
	Though some risks are unavoidable, bigger risks must be avoided as they hold the responsibility for other businesses and private individual
	Failure can lead to negative reputation and legal complications

(3) What are we going to do about it?
	The easiest thing to start with is limiting risks in the physical sites
	Better security
	Employee awareness of in-person breaches
	Regular checkups and maintenance of assets
	The systems should be well designed by experienced individuals and tested
	Backups should be utilized, even if it costs a lot
	The only options are to Mitigate and Eliminate
	Company can not shift blame customers/stakeholders, and there is no room to accept errors

(4) Did we do a good enough job?
	Assessment of physical and online security. Logs of data leaks/breaches and a tech team. Frequent and thorough evaluation
Karvinen 2024: Information Security Course, https://terokarvinen.com/information-security/


